Add a risk section (#208)
DE-RSE/2023_paper-RSE-groups: paper.tex

We propose a potential transition path, beginning with purely embedded RSEs---distributed across the institution and linked to individual research groups and their projects---and leading toward a centralised institutional RSE unit.
After starting with initial measures not necessarily requiring dedicated funding, we discuss developing a business plan and how the RSE unit can be established.
We conclude with measures for promoting its growth.

> Naturally, the presence of a \"new\" Department like an RSE department at an academic institution will lead to a realignment of responsibilities of existing departments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Naturally, the presence of a \"new\" department like an RSE department at an academic institution will lead to a realignment of responsibilities of existing departments.
```

> Stakeholders that are affected are for example traditional IT centers, libraries, but also RDM units and legal offices. We argue, that an RSE unit does not aim to replace them, but 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stakeholders that are affected are for example traditional IT centers, libraries, but also RDM units and legal offices. We argue that an RSE unit does not aim to replace them but 
```

\end{mdframed}

\subsubsection{Risk Assessment and Opportunities}
Naturally, the presence of a \"new\" department like an RSE department at an academic institution will lead to a realignment of responsibilities of existing departments.
Stakeholders that are affected are for example traditional IT centres, libraries, but also RDM units and legal offices. We argue, that an RSE unit does not aim to replace them, but
offers new possibilities to connect these existing institutions and thereby enables an academic insititution to offer a stronger portfolio to its scientists.
Even, if the concept of an RSE unit fails at a specific institution, its duties and the employed people
can be shifted to the other departments until a new structure has been found.\\
Governance and organisational location are points that have to be negotiated
inividually at each institution and probably also for a lot of employees of the RSE unit.
This comes partially from the aforementioned stakeholders, but also from the necessity,
that while the unit is a central infrastructure, it needs to be able within

> the agile structures of academic research, therefore a certain lack of structures is expected.

Reviewer 2: this part of the sentence is not clear

Author: I tried my hand at clarifying it... Not sure I succeeded.

Finding people for staffing this unit is a challenging tasks, but this is partially adressed
through the wide network within the university that the unit forms, and also by
further measures described in \ref{subsec:staff}.

> Funding will always be an issue of any newly established structure at german university.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Funding will always be an issue of any newly established structure at a German university.
```

Initial funding, e.g. by initiatives outside of the university, can jumpstart the unit,
ultimately it has to prove its value to the scientists of the university such that the pooling idea
we have given \ref{subsec:pooling} gains traction.
While ``measuring'' the success of the unit certainly has to be done, ultimately

> the scientists have to come to the conclusion that do not want to see the unit disappear again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the scientists have to come to the conclusion whether the RSE unit is worthwhile and should be kept.
```

In addition, SIS offers services in the areas of data science, machine learning, bioinformatics, trusted compute environments, and training and consulting.
\end{mdframed}

\subsubsection{Risk Assessment and Mitigation}
Naturally, establishing a “new” department like an RSE department at an academic institution will lead to a realignment of responsibilities of existing departments.
Units that might be affected include not only traditional IT centres, libraries, but also RDM units and legal offices.

> We argue, that an RSE unit does not aim to replace them, but offers new possibilities to connect these existing departments and thereby enables an academic insititution to offer a stronger portfolio to its researchers.

Reviewer 2: portfolio on its own does not make much sense
```suggestion
We argue, that an RSE unit does not aim to replace them, but offers new possibilities to connect these existing departments and thereby enables an academic insititution to offer a stronger service portfolio to its researchers.
```

> Giving the new RSE department a clear mandate and mission statements delineating it from other departments further mitigates this.

Reviewer 2: attempt to clarify _this_
```suggestion
Giving the new RSE department a clear mandate and mission statements ensures further delineation from other departments and helps to avoid overlapping responsibilities.```

> Optimal governance and organisational location are highly individually for each institution.

Reviewer 2: reformulate

```suggestion
The governance of an RSE unit and its location within the organisational chart depend on the specifics of each institution.
```

> In order to avoid risks from unclear governance, however, leadership and responsibilities should be clearly communicated from day one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to avoid risks from unclear governance, however, leadership and responsibilities should be clearly set out at the inception of the unit.
```

In addition, SIS offers services in the areas of data science, machine learning, bioinformatics, trusted compute environments, and training and consulting.
\end{mdframed}

\subsubsection{Risk Assessment and Opportunities}

> Naturally, the presence of a “new” department like an RSE department at an academic institution will lead to a realignment of responsibilities of existing departments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Naturally, establishing a “new” department like an RSE department at an academic institution will lead to a realignment of responsibilities of existing departments.
```
I think it's the creation of a new department that moves responsibilities around. Once it is established things should have settled down.

> Stakeholders that might be affected are for example traditional IT centres, libraries, but also RDM units and legal offices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Units that might be affected include not only traditional IT centres, libraries, but also RDM units and legal offices.
```
minor reformulation

> We argue, that an RSE unit does not aim to replace them, but offers new possibilities to connect these existing institutions and thereby enables an academic insititution to offer a stronger portfolio to its scientists.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We argue, that an RSE unit does not aim to replace them, but offers new possibilities to connect these existing departments and thereby enables an academic insititution to offer a stronger portfolio to its researchers.
```
* too many instittions 
* and be a little more inclusive

Even if the concept of an RSE unit fails at a specific institution, its duties and the employed people can be shifted to the other departments until a new structure has been found.

> Governance and organisational location are points that have to be negotiated inividually at each institution and probably also for a lot of employees of the RSE unit in order to fit the needs of the scientists.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Governance and organisational location are points that have to be negotiated inividually at each institution and probably also for a lot of employees of the RSE unit in order to fit the needs of the researchers.
```

This comes partially from the aforementioned stakeholders, but also from the necessity, that while the unit is a central infrastructure,
  it needs to be able to provide the services of their employees within the agile structures of academic research -- close to the scientists.

> Therefore a certain lack of formalised, organisational structures can be expected.

Reviewer 2: What is _This_ - the governance? Agile structures at a university? What are you trying to say here? I think this sounds a little bit vague and that RSEs would like to do stuff.

Finding people for staffing this unit is a challenging tasks, but this is partially addressed through the wide network within the university that the unit forms, and also by further measures described in~\ref{subsec:staff}.
Funding will always be an issue of any newly established structure at a German university.

> Initial funding, e. g., by initiatives outside of the university, can jumpstart the unit, ultimately it has to prove its value to the scientists of the university such that the pooling idea we have given~\ref{subsec:pooling} gains traction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Initial funding, e. g., by initiatives outside of the university, can jumpstart the unit, ultimately it has to prove its value to the researchers of the university such that the pooling idea we have given~\ref{subsec:pooling} gains traction.
```

> While “measuring” the success of the unit certainly has its difficulties but could be tried, ultimately the scientists have to come to the conclusion whether the RSE unit is worthwhile and should be kept.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While “measuring” the success of the unit certainly has its difficulties but could be tried, ultimately the researchers have to come to the conclusion whether the RSE unit is worthwhile and should be kept.
```

I think this is a tricky one. Presumably an RSE unit needs to generate some form of income which can be used to decide whether it is successful.

In addition, SIS offers services in the areas of data science, machine learning, bioinformatics, trusted compute environments, and training and consulting.
\end{mdframed}

\subsubsection{Risk Assessment and Opportunities}

> Naturally, the presence of a \"new\" department like an RSE department at an academic institution will lead to a realignment of responsibilities of existing departments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Naturally, the presence of a “new” department like an RSE department at an academic institution will lead to a realignment of responsibilities of existing departments.
```

Governance and organisational location are points that have to be negotiated
inividually at each institution and probably also for a lot of employees of the RSE unit in order to fit the needs of the scientists.
This comes partially from the aforementioned stakeholders, but also from the necessity,
that while the unit is a central infrastructure,
it needs to be able to provide the services of their employees within the agile structures of academic research -- close to the scientists.
Therefore a certain lack of formalised, organisational structures can be expected.
Finding people for staffing this unit is a challenging tasks, but this is partially addressed
through the wide network within the university that the unit forms, and also by
further measures described in \ref{subsec:staff}.
Funding will always be an issue of any newly established structure at a German university.
Initial funding, e.g. by initiatives outside of the university, can jumpstart the unit,
ultimately it has to prove its value to the scientists of the university such that the pooling idea
we have given \ref{subsec:pooling} gains traction.

> While ``measuring'' the success of the unit certainly has to be done, ultimately

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While “measuring” the success of the unit certainly has to be done, ultimately
```
